# Reflection9

### 1. Is there a default username/password that needs to be changed after installation? What are the password requirements? Is adding password protection optional? In which scenarios should it be enabled?

- Default username and passwords are intended to be placeholders and used only for the initial. in most database there is a default "root" username and we would be asked for entering the password but if there is any default password we should change right-away after installation. Default account root is often the source of unauthorized access by a malicious user. When possible, they should be disabled completely. If the account cannot be disabled, the default passwords should be changed immediately upon installation and configuration of the system or application.

- What are the password requirements?
  at least 8 characters long;
  a mix of upper and lowercase letters, numbers and symbols;
  not a dictionary word or a word that's easily guessed;
  changed regularly; and
  not reused on other accounts.

- Password protection allows you to protect your data set by assigning it a password. other users cannot read, change, or delete your data set without knowing that password. Password encryption is essential to store user credentials stored in a database securely. Without password encryption, your database would exploitable and its a high vulnerability!

- In which scenarios should it be enabled?
  protect your database against code injection attacks. Ex: Enterprise user management - The Enterprise user management feature enables an Oracle database to use the Oracle Identity Management Infrastructure by securely storing and managing user information.

https://www.vaadata.com/blog/how-to-securely-store-passwords-in-database/

### 2. Is there a way to add a layer of encryption (like SSL or similar) to communicate with the database over HTTP or some other internet-facing protocol? How about encrypting the database itself? Would this require certificates or signatures of some sort and how could one generate those free of cost?

SSL as Secure Socket Layer its the high recommended standard to keep a connection secure specially through the internet which has a high vulnerability of being exploitable! and its safegaurding any sensitive data that being transfered between two systems including confidentional and personal informations! when ssl exisit the http as hypertext transfer protocol would turn to https, in fact Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (https) is a combination of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) with the Secure Socket Layer (SSL)/Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol. TLS is an authentication and security protocol widely implemented in browsers and Web servers.

- You can connect to your online RestDB database from any application using the secure HTTPS protocol.

With database encryption, an encryption algorithm transforms data within a database from a readable state into a ciphertext of unreadable characters. With a key generated by the algorithm, a user can decrypt the data and retrieve the usable information as needed

https://www.n-able.com/blog/types-database-encryption-methods#:~:text=How%20does%20database%20encryption%20work,the%20usable%20information%20as%20needed.

when you are dealing with customers informations, credit cards or any confidential and critical data you need to make it secure first! you might need to buy a digital SSL certificate, which will enable you to insert a digital signiture, to protect your connection, application and correspondences!
there are so free SSL too, of course better than nothing but maybe a good one might be paying hundred dollards but maybe its needed based on your senstive data!
Generate a free SSL certificate
https://www.sslforfree.com/

### 3. Are the any recommendations regarding assigning port numbers and exposing ports? Would your (home) internet provider allow you to expose that port? How would that be configured? Why would it be a bad idea to do so?

Ports are essential to any TCP/IP based communication! we simply need them! misconfigured ports abd port vulnerabilities provide thread actors with dangerous backdoor into the environment! premission, firewall, communication, data transfer everything is happening through this ports concept! most of the databased have already a default port! which I believe personaly it better to change them to a new one! that would make them a lot harder for the hacker to be able even send any request to our database! that means we get invisible to not trusted users!

open port - port forwarding - even using applications like ngrok would put in in trouble and most probably your ip would get blocked by your ISP and getting 403!

opem ports become dangerous when legitimate services are exploited through security vulnerabilities or malicious services are introduced to a system via malware or social engineering, cybercriminals can use these services in conjuction with open ports to gain unauthorized access to our sensitive data

### 4. What good design techniques and technological options exist for implementing a front-end that never needs to know where the DBMS is located and/or which technology it uses?

personaly I think the best way is configure the backend only answer the requests who has the token! so for the users with no token it look like there is no server!

- in the zone of databse I believe The problem goes away in the moment you implement authentication + autherization properly because properly implemented these two make sure that only authenticated users can access anything at all AND that every user can only access things he is allowed to. Even if an authenticated user knows the correct ID of something he is not allowed to access this would be secure because he would prevented from accessing it.

- for the database also you should revoke the permission 'view my database' from the role public! 
  using the tools like SSMS for SQL might help since you can hide database names from unauthorized users in SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) as an integrated environment for managing any SQL infrastructure, from SQL Server to Azure SQL Database. 
  To mitigate security risks, separate your database servers from everything else. Additionally, use real-time security information and event monitoring (SIEM), which is dedicated to database security and allows organizations to take immediate action in the event of an attempted breach.To combat this issue and add another layer of security to your database, set up a multi-factor authentication process.
  (This method isn’t perfect because of recent trends.) Even if credentials get compromised, cyber criminals will have a difficult time going around this security protocol.
  https://www.ibm.com/cloud/learn/database-security

### 5. What kind of security can you achieve using front-end validations alone? Under which circumstances this would feel like a sufficient method to secure the database?

Front-end validation even using any framework libraries like Angular  can easily be bypassed. It also reduces the load on the server. Back-end validation is a MUST. the minimum these day might be firebase or keycloak 
frontend or client side validation alone in any cases can be bypasses through even the console log! and it also dangerous if another developer who doesnt have idea about FE validation can easily disable these validation by mistake and never get notified! the FE validation its not bad if its a small website not an application and when the there is no sensitive data! 
\*\* keep in mind the frontend validation is not bad! its just not enough alone! 
Using front-end validations stops unnecessary POST/PATCH requests being made, therefore, is a faster way with less processing, as data is stopped before it’s even sent to the server.

### 6. What kind of a modular approach to the design of a back-end would allow to easily update and change the DBMS that is being used?

In the database design phases, data are represented using a certain data model. The data model is a collection of concepts or notations for describing data, data relationships, data semantics and data constraints.

https://opentextbc.ca/dbdesign01/chapter/chapter-5-data-modelling/

conceptual model: the logical structure of the entire database

conceptual schema: another term for logical schema

data independence: the immunity of user applications to changes made in the definition and organization of data

data model:a collection of concepts or notations for describing data, data relationships, data semantics and data constraints

data modelling: the first step in the process of database design

database logical design:  defines a database in a data model of a specific database management system

database physical design: defines the internal database storage structure, file organization or indexing techniques

entity relationship diagram (ERD): a data model describing the database showing tables, attributes and relationships

external model:  represents the user’s view of the database

external schema: user view

internal model: a representation of the database as seen by the DBMS

logical data independence: the ability to change the logical schema without changing the external schema

logical design: where you create all the tables, constraints, keys, rules, etc.

logical schema: a conceptual design of the database done on paper or a whiteboard, much like architectural drawings for a house

operating system (OS): manages the physical level of the physical model

physical data independence: the immunity of the internal model to changes in the physical model

physical model: the physical representation of the database

schema: an overall description of a database

### 7. Are there access log files generated somewhere that you could use to examine any incoming attacks? Where are those files and what do they contain? How would you use them to see if anything is wrong?

logs are can be store in a same database (not recomended) or different! accessing the log usually happens by the not a querry all since there are too many logs! and usually we can see them through the pagination! but lets talk about something very interesting to see why logs are important: 
Getting caught is exactly what every hacker does not want. They want to be able to gain entry into a system and then quickly withdraw to the safety of the internet café they are presumably hacking from. Logs are designed to record nearly everything that occurs in a system, including hacking attempts, and can be the determinative factor in catching hackers after their crime has been committed.

Ethical hackers need to understand how hackers tamper with logs, as it is a common practice with hackers. as a Database administrator is so important to know who a user can do these actions: disabling auditing, clearing logs, modifying logs and erasing command history.

In terms of analogies, hacking is sort of like stealing cookies from the cookie jar. Every cookie thief, or hacker, wants to be able to get in there and do what their dirty deeds before getting caught.

In terms of analogies, hacking is sort of like stealing cookies from the cookie jar. Every cookie thief, or hacker, wants to be able to get in there and do what their dirty deeds before getting caught.

Now imagine that this cookie jar is surrounded by fresh snow that covers everything around it. It would be impossible to even get to the cookie jar without leaving tracks — just as it would be impossible to gain entry to a system without being detected. Tampering with logs is the equivalent of covering these obvious tracks that administrators use to catch hackers.

https://resources.infosecinstitute.com/topic/ethical-hacking-log-tampering-101/

### 8. How would one set up a backup and/or replication system so that one could reasonably recover from failures or attacks? How much of this can be automated? How often should backups be taken?

Database backup is the process of backing up the operational state, architecture and stored data of database software. It enables the creation of a duplicate instance or copy of a database in case the primary database crashes, is corrupted or is lost. Follow the 3-2-1-1 backup strategy: Keep at least three (3) copies of your data. Store two (2) backup copies on different storage media. Store one (1) copy offsite.
Database replication is the frequent electronic copying of data from a database in one computer or server to a database in another -- so that all users share the same level of information. The result is a distributed database in which users can quickly access data relevant to their tasks without interfering with the work of others.
Automating backups saves time and energy and reduces the complexities and inconsistencies typically associated with a manual backup process.
Automating the backup process may also require you to think about how best to implement your security requirements and access requirements. Does a pull-based backup system, where the backup target pulls data from your production systems, make sense? What type of access does the backup process need to your systems? What permissions can you remove to limit the reach and impact of the backup account? These are the types of questions you'll need to ask yourself while implementing your backup system and especially when automating the process.
How often should I backup my data?" is "periodically and as often as necessary to minimize the consequences of data loss." Typically, that translates to a full backup every week and a backup of each day's transactions at least once daily.

https://www.ibm.com/docs/ja/tsmfm/7.1.1?topic=processing-types-database-backups

### 9. Is any of the information stored in the database considered private information under Québec law? Are there additional federal laws you should consider? How about international rules and regulations? What would your legal obligations be to protect this information from being leaked or breached? Do you need to allow users to audit or delete their own data?

Every organization doing business in Québec that processes personal information needs to understand the new requirements to ensure compliance and the protection of personal information.

Right to data portability - Treated as an extension of the right of access, data portability grants individuals a supplementary right to receive computerized personal information collected from them in a structured, commonly used and technological format and to have this information transferred directly to “any person or body authorized by law to collect such information.

Canada’s federal privacy law will ensure that the privacy of Canadians will be protected and that innovative businesses can benefit from clear rules as technology continues to evolve. It includes - giving Canadians the freedom to move their information from one organization to another in a secure manner.

There is no legal instrument dealing with the privacy of individuals on an international scale. Rather, there are territorial privacy laws which are applicable within certain countries or regions. These laws provide a legal framework on how to collect, use and store the personal data of natural persons.

The legal obligations in Canada - providing the Privacy Commissioner of Canada with broad order-making powers, including the ability to order a company to stop collecting data or using personal information; and

establishing significant fines for non-compliant organizations—with fines of up to 5% of global revenue or $25 million, whichever is greater, for the most serious offences.

One of the ways you can increase the security of your organization and reduce security risk is to perform a user audit and adjusting user privileges where necessary. Regularly performing a user audit is a great way to clean up excessive user permissions and ensure you are following the principle of least privilege. The principle of least privilege advises that when evaluating user permissions, you should provide users with the minimum amount of access needed to do their job, and no additional privileges.

The CCPA regulations also provide that a business may use a two-step process for online requests to delete, where the consumer must first submit the request to delete and then, second, separately confirm that they want their personal information deleted
